# Data Modeling with Postgres
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

# Set up
- Install all necessary python requirements
```bash
pip install requirements.txt
```
- Install PostgreSQL localy and set up an instance on port 5432.

# Run
- Create the tables
```bash
python create_table.py
```
- Load and process the data
```bash
python etl.py
```

# Data sets
The song dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. Sample data:

```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```
The log dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [Event Simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

# Schema
The database contains of 5 tables:
    - The fact table songplays song and artist data with columns: start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
    - The dimension table users stores user information with columns: user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
    - The dimension table song stores son information with columns: song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
    - The dimension table artists stores the artists information with columns: artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
    - The dimension table time stores the timestamps of music played with columns: start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


